The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Ghost in the Red Shirt, by B. M.
Bower

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Ghost in the Red Shirt

Author: B. M. Bower

Release Date: February 4, 2022 [eBook #67319]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark. (This file was produced from
             images generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GHOST IN THE RED SHIRT ***


                      The Ghost in the Red Shirt

                            by B. M. Bower


The proper way to begin this story would be to assure the reader,
first of all, that I have never believed in ghosts; that is the way
ghost-stories usually begin, I think. Also, I should say that what I
am about to relate is perfectly true—but I won’t begin it like that.
As a matter of fact, I don’t care much whether you believe me or not,
and I always did believe in ghosts—at least, I always hoped they were
truer than Santa Claus, and that some day I should see one.

Aunt Jane—but I don’t want to begin with Aunt Jane either: she always
did begin everything in my life, ever since I can remember, and she
sha’n’t begin this story. I don’t mean her even to know I wrote
it—she’d only say I’m crazy, and I’m not.

This is the way it all happened, and, mind, I don’t care whether you
believe it or not. It _happened_, and your belief or disbelief won’t
alter that one important fact. And he was the dearest old ghost—but
wait till I start at the beginning, as I should have done before.

We had gone across the lake that evening in the little sail-boat, the
New Woman. Jack named it, you might know; he said she was full of
whims and it took a man to hold her nose in the wind—Jack’s awfully
sarcastic.

There were just six of us—Aunt Jane and Mabel, Cousin Jack, Professor
Goldburn, and Clifford Wilton. Clifford and I weren’t on very friendly
terms. We had been engaged, though Aunt Jane didn’t suspect it. But it
was all over, and my sweet little ruby ring was lying somewhere off
Weir Point, where Clifford threw it one day—but this is a ghost-story.

Nothing happened during the sail except that my hat blew away and
Mabel hinted that it wasn’t an accident—that I liked to show off my
hair. I said I didn’t show off any hair but what I might justly call
my own, and, of course, that made Mabel mad—angry, I mean. Aunt Jane
scolded me, as usual: it’s easy to tell which niece has the money.

We landed to visit a cave in the cliff, and Mabel and Clifford flirted
outrageously. It wasn’t a bit interesting—I mean the cave. The
flirting didn’t worry me: I was particularly nice to Professor
Goldburn—so nice that Aunt Jane called me her dear child twice, and
the Professor came near offering me his heart and hand. Jack saved me:
he called us all to the boat just as the Professor got fairly warmed
to his subject. Of course, I ran as soon as Jack called, leaving the
Professor to come nipping along behind—I hate fat men, anyway.

A storm was muttering up from the horizon, and the oily, ugly clouds
were almost over our heads before we pushed off, on account of Mabel
and Clifford loitering along the cliff path and acting that silly!

The lake was smooth as glass and ink black, and the look of it made me
shiver, with four miles of it between us and home.

Jack raised the sail, but it hung limp, so there was nothing for it
but to row. Jack and Clifford went to work, while I steered the boat.
Clifford spoke once to me: we ignored each other, as a rule.

“Better keep her close in. We’ll try to round this point and run into
the cove before she strikes.”

“If we don’t,” remarked Jack cheerfully, “she’ll flop us; and, oh
mister, she won’t do a thing to us!”

I rather thought “she” would do several things to us, but I didn’t
stop to argue the point—there wasn’t time. I don’t know just how it
came about, but Jack was right—she “flopped” us.

We weren’t far from shore, so the upset wasn’t very serious. The water
was so shallow we could easily wade ashore, though Mabel called for
help, and, of course, it was Clifford who rescued her—from water no
deeper than our bathtub! It is incredible, the foolishness of that
girl!

I was first to climb the bank, and when I had watched the others land
I just sat down in the wind and the rain and laughed. (Mabel says I
will probably laugh at my own funeral; I’m positive I could have
laughed at hers just then.) The idea of a great, overgrown girl like
her (she weighs a hundred and fifty pounds if she weighs an ounce)
sobbing on a young man’s shoulder! and the curl all out of her hair,
and the complexion washed off her face in streaks. It’s a wonder she
didn’t turn Clifford sick; but, then, men show dreadfully poor taste
at times. I don’t suppose I was very entrancing myself just then, but,
thank goodness, my complexion will bear washing!

The New Woman reached the shore, upside down, almost as soon as we
did, and my old golf-cape, that Aunt Jane insists I shall carry with
me always in the boat, dangled on a wave-washed willow. Jack waded in
and rescued it and Aunt Jane’s little gray shawl (her green umbrella’s
gone forever, for which I am very thankful). Mabel’s sailor-hat washed
ashore while we stood there, and Clifford got that.

Then Jack remembered that there was an old cabin near there, and we
found what had once been a well-trodden path leading back from the
shore into the woods. We followed it dismally, with the lightning to
guide us.

Jack led the way, reciting: “It was night! The vivid lightnings
flashed athwart the vaulted sky and shook their fiery darts upon the
shuddering earth. The elements were in wild commotion!”—or something
like that. I think he got it out of a “Penny Dreadful.”

Just as Jack said “commotion,” with a fine roll upon the word, the
Professor caught his toe upon a root, and down he went—and I laughed.
Aunt Jane didn’t call me her dear child that time; she said,
“Zel-l-l-ah!” But I don’t care. Jack laughed too, though he did
pretend he was just coughing.

We found the cabin, half hidden by the tall burdocks and wild
rosebushes. The door-step was sunken and covered deep with the leaves
of many summers.

Jack threw open the door and cried “Spooks!” in a sepulchral tone
which gave me a chill, but when Mabel gave a squawk and caught
Clifford’s arm I just pushed Mr. Jack headlong over the threshold and
went on in.

The lightning glared in at the open door and showed us a great, old
fireplace, with a huge pile of dry wood stacked in one corner, and
there were some chairs and a table, and that was all.

Jack swooped down upon the fireplace with a shout, and we had a
roaring fire in no time, for Jack’s matches were dry, for a wonder.
Goodness knows he paid enough for his matchbox; Aunt Jane said it was
a scandalous price, but it was worth every cent of it to have dry
matches that night. We huddled around the fire, half frozen from our
ducking. I spread out my old golf-cape to dry, so that I might have
some good of the old thing—I had lugged it around all summer and
hadn’t used it once. Aunt Jane and I took down our hair and wrung out
the water. Mabel wouldn’t; she said hers wasn’t very wet—and that
settled the switch question in my mind, and from the way Jack grinned
I know what he thought about it—and Aunt Jane trying to make a match
between those two!

Professor Goldburn backed up to the fire, rubbed his pudgy hands
together behind him, and ogled till I felt downright sick, but I
wouldn’t show it. He had lost his eyeglass and the curl was out of his
mustache and his collar all crumpled, and that oily smile didn’t seem
to match the rest of him a bit. I don’t care if he is worth a million
or more, I just think he’s horrid! I smiled back at him just to see
Clifford scowl. But Clifford wasn’t looking my way. He was whispering
something to Mabel and had his back turned to me—both of which I
consider rude in anybody, no matter who does it.

Then Jack got to wondering what was in the next room, for there
appeared to be two, and he and I went to explore.

The room had been a bedroom, I think. It was bare of everything but
dust and cobwebs, and was so small it didn’t take us long—Jack only
burned one match and two fingers.

After that we sat around the fire and listened to the storm, and tried
to think we weren’t famished, which was hard to do, seeing we had had
nothing since luncheon.

Aunt Jane worried over Uncle John and how anxious he’d be, but I was
rather glad for him. He’d lectured me awfully that morning because I
wasn’t nice and dignified, like Mabel. I hoped he’d remember it with
remorse.

Jack sang coon-songs and even did a cake-walk. I got up and helped him
in that, just to shock Mabel. She thinks cake-walking is very
unladylike, and always looks scandalized when I begin anything of the
kind.

Aunt Jane—to punish us, I think—started the Professor going on his pet
microbes, and once he was started, no one else had any show whatever.
He droned on about bacilli and other horrors, and gravely assured us
that old cabin was undoubtedly swarming with awful-sounding germs.
Fancy being married to such a man—ugh!

Aunt Jane presently fell asleep, and as Clifford took to staring
moodily into the fire and not seeming to remember anything but his
thoughts, Mabel soon followed Aunt Jane’s example. I was hungry and
cross, and even the Professor couldn’t talk me to sleep.

I wrapped my golf-cape around me and cuddled in an old armchair in
front of the fireplace, with Jack and the Professor upon either side
of me and Clifford on a little bench against the wall. Aunt Jane and
Mabel were on the side opposite Clifford, though they, being asleep,
do not count.

I was beginning to hold my eyes open with some effort, when something
roused me, and I sat up straight and listened. The storm was still
beating furiously against the cabin walls, but another sound was
distinctly audible. There could be no mistake—someone was walking back
and forth in the other room.

We looked at one another, and I admit a creepy feeling went up my
spine just at first.

Clifford caught up a brand from the fire and started for the closed
door, and we all followed him. When we crowded into the doorway we saw
nothing but the dust and the cobwebs and the dancing glare of
Clifford’s torch upon the rough board walls. It was such a bare little
room that I think we all felt a bit ashamed of our nerves.

The footsteps had ceased, and only the wind and rain, beating upon the
low roof, could be heard.

“It’s the wind,” said Clifford, pointing his torch downward to freshen
the blaze.

“It was the water dripping from some branch upon the roof,” said the
Professor—and that was the most sensible remark he had made that
night.

“More likely it’s rats,” put in Jack. “Can’t be a ghost—they’re noted
chiefly for the noise they _don’t_ make.”

I pinched Jack soundly for mentioning ghosts, and spoke as firmly as I
could with my teeth chattering so,—

“It’s your microbes, Professor.”

Jack snickered, and the Professor rolled his eyes reproachfully at me.

Then we all went back to the fire and Jack threw on more wood. The
Professor went on talking, only this time it was about telepathy, or
something of that sort. And soon we heard that heavy, measured tread,
as before. I must say I didn’t much like the sound of it—coming like
that, with no feet to make the thing seem reasonable, and with no
ghost to make it creepily interesting, but the men appeared to ignore
the tramping, so I tried to not care.

Jack fell to smoking cigarettes, seeing Aunt Jane was asleep, and
Clifford poked the ashes into fanciful little heaps and got creases in
his forehead. He did look glum and no mistake, but I couldn’t see that
he was afraid, or anything like that.

After awhile my eyes went shut, just for a minute. I could still hear
the Professor’s voice droning like a big bumble-bee, when suddenly he
stopped short in the middle of a sentence. That was odd, for he does
love to round out his sentences nicely, even when he is interrupted.

I opened my eyes and looked at him. He was gazing, with mouth half
open and with eyes full of fear, at something behind me.

Well, you know how it is when someone begins to stare _behind_ you—if
you were to be hanged for it the next minute, you’d turn and look. You
couldn’t help it.

I turned in my chair, and—br-r-r-r! I went cold all over, with little
prickles in my scalp. (I suppose that was my hair standing on end,
though Jack says it always does.)

Coming slowly across the room, straight towards me, was a
man—ghost—oh, I don’t know what! I gave one horrified glance, then I
jumped from the armchair and with one bound I was on the little bench,
snuggled up to Clifford’s side. I didn’t realize it till I felt his
arm—well, under the golf-cape! (That blessed old cape shall never go
to the ragman, I assure you.)

I was none too soon, for as I sprang from the chair It slid into it.
There he sat—a short, stocky figure, with grizzled hair and rough,
toil-hardened hands. His eyes were dull and gazed straight into the
fire.

I must confess I was the tiniest bit disappointed after that first
glance. I had all my life longed to see a really, truly ghost, but
this one was neither picturesque nor orthodox. Where was the white
winding-sheet? He wore faded blue overalls and a red flannel shirt! As
to the chill, I have felt that before.

For instance, when Clifford threw my ring away out, and I watched the
widening circle where it fell, while he said bitterly, “There goes my
faith in women,” I felt the very same creepy cold trickling down my
back. I believe I even felt worse that time.

We all sat as if paralyzed. After a minute I gathered courage to
glance up at Clifford’s face, and, do you know, he actually seemed to
enjoy the situation! He looked down at me, and his _eyes_ smiled—and
I’m not sure but his lips did, as well. I know he didn’t seem a bit
scared.

Jack certainly was white, though he scouted the idea afterwards, and
the Professor’s face was like a great lump of beef suet.

After what seemed hours—and was probably only seconds—the apparition
rose, glided back to the door, and disappeared.

Jack drew a long breath and finished making a cigarette, though I know
his hand shook and made it hard work. The Professor gathered himself
together, said “Lord bless my soul!”—it was as bad as swearing, the
way he said it,—and raised a forefinger.

“Ladies and gentlemen,” he began in a shaky half-whisper, “it would
seem that we have just beheld something unusual and—er—startling.”

“Well, I should tell a man!” said Jack, glancing furtively over his
shoulder as he drew a match along the edge of his chair.

“Now,” continued the Professor hurriedly, somewhat steadied by Jack’s
composure (though I’m certain that was only assumed), “I would
suggest, in the interest of scientific research, that before anything
is said upon the subject we each in turn write a brief description of
the—er—phenomenon. In this way there will be less danger of our
impression being colored by that of another mind, and—er—ladies
first.”

With this lame finish he handed me a little, red note-book and a
pencil.

“Write briefly what you saw,—I take it you _did_ see something,—then
turn the page and pass the book to Mr. Wilton.”

This struck me as being decidedly original, and since I was not nearly
as frightened as one would suppose (it was _such_ a comfort being
reconciled to Clifford!), I took the book and did the best I could.

Then Clifford drew his arm reluctantly from under my cape,—I hope and
pray no one knew it was there all this while,—scribbled rapidly,
turned the page, and gave the book to Jack, and then his arm oh, well,
what could I do? I did try pinching his hand, but his fingers caught
mine in an awful grip and wouldn’t let go, and so—what could I do?

Just then Aunt Jane woke with a shiver.

“Mercy,” she said, “what an awful storm!”

In a moment she noticed the steps in the other room.

“Strange,” she said, turning her head to listen. “What is it, do you
think?”

“Wind,” said the Professor rather curtly, for him.

“Water,” said Clifford, giving my fingers a squeeze.

“Rats,” announced Jack, in a tone which left us doubtful as to his
meaning.

“Microbes,” finished I, not to be outdone by their brevity and aplomb.

“Zella!” cried Aunt Jane, glancing apprehensively at the Professor.

The Professor looked at me and sighed, and Jack clapped both hands
over his heart and nearly sighed himself off the three-legged stool.
Jack can’t endure Professor Goldburn.

“Zella,” began Aunt Jane pointedly, “don’t you think you would be more
comfortable in that chair?” (meaning the ghost chair.)

“No, I don’t!” I snapped, very impertinently, I’m afraid—but catch me
sitting in _that chair_ again!

Aunt Jane turned to Jack, perched uncomfortably on the stool. (Now
Jack is proverbially lazy: he never sits upright when he can lean.)

“Well, Jack! I never knew you to let a cushioned armchair go begging
an occupant. What’s the matter?”

“Oh, nothing,” drawled Jack. “You sit there yourself, mother.”

“Well, I will. It looks more comfortable than this straight-backed
one,” and she settled down heavily on the faded calico cushion, while
I shivered with horror.

If the ghost in the red shirt returned—well, Aunt Jane is one of the
screaming sort.

We sat quiet a long time, it seemed to me. I was just wondering if I
dared lean my head against Clifford and take a nap when I felt his arm
tighten warningly. I looked, and there was the ghost gliding up to the
chair, his lustreless eyes fixed upon the fire as before.

Jack turned and saw it, and grew white. He can’t convince _me_ he
wasn’t scared, for he looked it.

I stared, horrified. I tried to cry out, but before I could limber my
tongue (it felt so dry and helpless) the ghost reached the chair
and—sat right down upon Aunt Jane! He really did! She stirred a little
and shivered.

“Throw more wood on the fire, Jack,” she said, “I feel chilly.”

Chilly! Good Heaven, I think we all did! Even Jack’s splendid nerve
was shaken at sight of his own mother dandling that Thing upon her
knees.

“Mother!” he cried, and his voice sounded hoarse (for a fellow that
wasn’t scared), “for God’s sake, move!”

Well, there’s a gap in the story here that I can’t fill.

The next I remember Aunt Jane was fanning me with Mabel’s sailor-hat,
and Jack stood by with an old tomato-can full of water which leaked a
stream almost, and he looking very sober. The Professor was rubbing
his hands together and saying, “Lord bless my soul!” over and over. I
hate that man!

The ghost in the red shirt was gone, and I could not hear any
footsteps in the vacant room.

After that it was a thousand years till morning. Our watches had all
stopped, so I may be allowed my own estimate of the time, I hope.

Well, I think that’s all of the ghost-story. It would take too long to
tell how we walked home at daybreak—six miles, it was, right through
the woods, and Aunt Jane and the Professor puffing like steam-engines
before we had gone a mile—or how Uncle John had a steam-launch out
searching for our remains. All that would make another story, and one
is my limit.

Oh, I didn’t go to sleep in that cabin and dream all this—how would
you account for Clifford’s behavior since that night, then? And what
about the red note-book? That is evidence that the ghost was real
enough, I should think.

We had all seen him alike, only Jack said he “wanted a shave,” which I
hadn’t noticed, and the Professor wrapped his description up in so
many long words that there was no getting at the sense of it—except
that he _did_ see a ghost.

Aunt Jane didn’t see him at all; she says she’d have died of fright if
she had; and, of course, Mabel, sleeping through the performance as
she did, was perfectly furious. She even went so far as to say we all
made it up among us just to annoy her.

Mabel and the Professor left the same day soon after that. Mabel
simply couldn’t treat me decently after she knew——

Oh, and I have another ruby ring, exactly like the one which lies off
Weir Point. And Clifford has oceans of faith in women.

                              (The End.)


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the July 1904 issue
of Lippincott’s Monthly Magazine. This was her first short story
published nationally.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GHOST IN THE RED SHIRT ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
